Docsp 29488 - Add Connection Troubleshooting Guide (#690)
mongodb/docs-node: source/connection-troubleshooting.txt

.. _node-connection-troubleshooting:

==========================
Connection Troubleshooting
==========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

This page offers potential solutions to issues you might encounter when
using the {+driver-long+} to connect to a MongoDB deployment.

.. note::

   This page addresses only connection issues. If you encounter any other issues
   with MongoDB or the driver, visit the following resources:

   - The :ref:`Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) <node-faq>` for the
     {+driver-short+}
   - The :ref:`Issues & Help <node-issues-help>` page, which has
     information about reporting bugs, contributing to the driver, and 
     finding additional resources
   - The `MongoDB Community Forums <https://community.mongodb.com>`__ for
     questions, discussions, or general technical support

Connection Error
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The following error message is a general message indicating that the driver

Author: Unfortunately not. While that is one of the reasons this error can be generated, this is also a catch all that gets generated if there is not a more specific message to filter up. Since this can be generated for a number of reasons as a general catch-all, I can't go into detail for all the reasons it can be generated.

:manual:`in your configuration file </reference/configuration-options/#mongodb-setting-net.ipv6>`.

.. code-block:: sh
   :caption: Starting mongod with the --ipv6 flag

   mongod --ipv6

.. code-block:: yaml
   :caption: Setting the net.ipv6 option in the configuration file

   net:
     ipv6: true

Use IPV4 with Your Mongo Client
-------------------------------

Beginning with version 17, Node.js defaults to using ``IPV6``. You can
explicitly use ``IPV4`` with your client by specifying ``family: 4`` as an
`option to your MongoClient <{+api+}/interfaces/MongoClientOptions.html#family>`__.

.. code-block:: js

   const client = new MongoClient(uri, {
     family: 4,
   });

ECONNRESET Error
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the connection is reset when the driver calls ``client.connect()``, it
generates this error message:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   MongoServerSelectionError: connect ECONNRESET ::1:27017

The following section describes a method that may help resolve the issue.

Increase Number of File Descriptors
-----------------------------------

In most operating systems, each connection is associated with a `file
descriptor

> <https://www.computerhope.com/jargon/f/file-descriptor.htm>`_. There is

Author: I thought the link was approved since this was a copy from the old FAQ (https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/node/current/faq/#what-can-i-do-if-i-m-getting--econnreset--when-calling--client.connect----) and moved over (as opposed to completely new authored content). I will remove the link when I reword the section.

typically a limit set by the operating system on the number of file
descriptors used by a single process. An ``ECONNRESET`` error can occur
if the connection pool size surpasses the limit of ``file descriptors``.

> Consider the following operation:

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think it could be helpful to be more descriptive of the code example, especially since there isn't any additional text after it that directs the reader's attention to what they should be looking at in it.

```suggestion
Consider the following connection code that sets the maximum size of the connection pool:
```

.. literalinclude:: /code-snippets/faq/econnresetWithClientConnect-example.js
  :language: javascript
  :linenos:

If this operation causes an ``ECONNRESET`` error, you may have run into
the ``file descriptor`` limit for your Node.js process. In that case you
must increase the number of ``file descriptors`` for the Node.js process. On
MacOS and Linux you do this with the `ulimit

> <https://ss64.com/bash/ulimit.html>`_ shell command.

Author: See above about assuming the link was acceptable since it was already published and the content was moved.

> <https://ss64.com/bash/ulimit.html>`_ shell command.

Author: I decided not to include the external command because I don't think that we should be recommending that. I still want to mention it, but don't want to give exact instructions for something that can have significant ripple effects.

.. code-block:: sh

   ulimit -n 6000

This sets the maximum number of ``file descriptors`` for the process to

> 6000, allowing Node.js to connect with a pool size of 5000 sockets.

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think file descriptors are used for more than just connections, so maybe there is no guarantee. I think it is sufficient to draw the connection between file descriptors and connections, perhaps earlier in the description.

E.g.
"The driver needs to use file descriptors to reference each connection in its connection pool."

Authentication Error
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The {+driver-short+} can fail to connect to a MongoDB instance if
the authorization is not configured correctly. In these cases, the driver raises

> an error message similar to one of the following messages:

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think it would be worthwhile to identify to the user that the example and troubleshooting advice is specifically related to ``SCRAM-SHA-256`` authentication and not any other type (e.g. ``LDAP``, ``TLS``, ``MONGODB-AWS``, etc. This applies to all the sub-sections.

E.g.
"fail to connect to a MongoDB deployment if your username and password are not configured for SCRAM-SHA-256 authentication correctly."

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   Command failed with error 18 (AuthenticationFailed): 'Authentication
   failed.' on server localhost:27017.

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   connection() error occurred during connection handshake: auth error:
   sasl conversation error: unable to authenticate using mechanism
   "SCRAM-SHA-256": (AuthenticationFailed) Authentication failed.

The following sections describe methods that may help resolve the issue.

.. _node-troubleshooting-connection-string-auth:

Check Connection String
-----------------------

An invalid connection string is the most common cause of authentication
issues when attempting to connect to MongoDB.

.. tip::

   For more information about connection strings,
   see :ref:`Connection URI <node-connection-uri>` in the Connection Guide.

If your connection string contains a username and password, ensure that they
are in the correct format.

.. note::

   If the username or password includes any of the following characters, they
   must be `percent encoded <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-2.1>`__:

   .. code-block:: none

      : / ? # [ ] @

> 

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think it would be helpful in this case to show the code that they can use to percent encode their username/password.

When connecting to a replica set, you should include all of the hosts
in the replica set in your connection string. Separate each of the hosts
in the connection string with a comma. This enables the driver to establish a

> connection if one of the hosts is unreachable.

Reviewer: Suggestion:
This seems unrelated to authentication; would it be ok to remove?

.. _node-troubleshooting-connection-admin:

Verify User Is in Authentication Database
-----------------------------------------

> To successfully authenticate a connection by using a username and password,

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think it would be helpful to link to info on how to check for a user's permissions in the authentication database or perhaps a sample query. Otherwise, the user doesn't have a good path forward to checking whether their user is in the default admin database.
Also could be good to mention that connecting to a locally-hosted MongoDB deployment from the same machine doesn't require any auth so that, for those situations, the user could eliminate this as a potential solution.

Author: Due to another comment, I added a section about verifying the users permissions that links to the RBAC docs. This is specifically about making sure the user is in the right database, because that is a common issue based on forum hits.

the username must be defined in the authentication database. The default
authentication database is the ``admin`` database. To use a different database
for authentication, specify the ``authSource`` in the connection string. The
following example instructs the driver to use ``users`` as the authentication
database:

.. code-block:: javascript
   :copyable: true

   const { MongoClient } = require("mongodb");
   const uri = "mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname>:<port>/?authSource=users";
   const client = new MongoClient(uri);

Error Sending Message
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When the driver fails to send a command after you make a request,

> it often displays the following general error message:

Reviewer: Suggestion:
When describing a hypothetical situation, describing something as occurring "often" may not carry the same meaning as "may or may not", the latter of which I think you intended here. Also, I don't think the page established what a "general " classification of an error message is, so I would avoid using that adjective.

```suggestion
it may display the following error message:
```

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   com.mongodb.MongoSocketWriteException: Exception sending message

The following sections describe methods that may help resolve the issue.

> Check Connection String

Reviewer: Question:
I'm not certain how this is related to failing to send a command. If they did not get a connection-related error previously, what circumstances could make this error happen that are related to the connection string? Perhaps there are some options on the connection string that might cause this? If so, could those be included here?

Author: I believe this can happen if the user does not have the appropriate permissions, so the thought is to make sure the user in the connection string is connect. I will specify in the content.

-----------------------

> Verify that the connection string in your app is accurate. For more information

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think this is the first mention of an app. I think this should either be consistently used or omitted.

```suggestion
Verify that the connection string is accurate. For more information
```

about verifying your connection string, see
:ref:`Connection Error <node-troubleshooting-connection-string-port>`
and :ref:`Authentication Error <node-troubleshooting-connection-string-auth>`.

Verify User Is in Authentication Database

> -----------------------------------------

Reviewer: Suggestion: 
Perhaps "Verify User Permissions in the Authentication Database" would be more specific. The user can be denied permissions in the auth database, so it wouldn't be limited to checking for existence there.

Author: This specific issue is something that was documented on multiple forum posts that the programmer created the user in another database other than the default, such as `userPermissions` or such. When they moved the user over to that database or specified that database to use as the authentication database, it worked. So I believe this terminology is correct. The user itself needs to exist in the database.

Verifying user permissions is also an issue and can be a different item (although interestingly, that didn't come up in any searching - maybe because it is standard enough that folks know to check it).

Reviewer: Revisiting the doc, I don't remember whether which error this specific one was tied to (there are two duplicate headers), but if this one is tied to "com.mongodb.MongoSocketWriteException: Exception sending message", I would guess that this has to do with the network and not with authentication nor authorization. I would double check with DBX engineers or get an external review to verify this potential cause.

Regarding authentication and authorization:

Unless I'm mistaken, if the user does not have any roles, they cannot perform any actions. When the driver attempts to run a command with that user for a command they do not have permissions in their role for, the server will return an error.

When you create a user in the authentication database, you must define their authorization roles to have permissions to do anything. E.g. https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/tutorial/create-users/#create-additional-users-for-your-deployment

In a local deployment, you don't need a user and automatically get admin access as that unnamed user.

Verify the user is in the correct authentication database. For more
information about the authentication database, see
:ref:`Authentication Error <node-troubleshooting-connection-admin>`.

Configure Firewall
------------------

The firewall needs to have an open port for communicating with the MongoDB
instance. For more information about configuring the firewall, see
:ref:`Connection Error <node-troubleshooting-connection-firewall>`.

.. _node-troubleshooting-connection-number-connections:

Check the Number of Connections
-------------------------------

This solution could apply to the generic message, as well as the following
specific error message:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

>    connection refused because too many open connections

Reviewer: Suggestion:

Since the rest are split out by error message and potential solutions, I think it would make sense to split this one into its own heading to ensure there's a uniform structure and therefore expectation of where to find information.

Author: I was trying to avoid duplicating too much and avoiding too many internal links. The issue is that this solution could work either for the generic error message or for this specific error message. It felt  like it was too much repetition for very similar types of errors.

Each ``MongoClient`` instance supports a maximum number of concurrent open

> connections in its connection pool. The configuration parameter ``maxPoolSize``
> defines this value and is set to ``100`` by default. If there are already a

Reviewer: Suggestion:

Avoid passive voice. I think it could be good to provide the reader with information on what actions they can take rather than mention the existence of something.

```suggestion
connections in its connection pool. You can configure the ``maxPoolSize``
parameter which has a default value of ``100``. If there are already a
```

number of open connections equal to ``maxPoolSize``, the server waits until
a connection becomes available. If this wait time exceeds the ``maxIdleTimeMS``
value, the driver responds with an error.

For more information about how connection pooling works, see
:ref:`How Does Connection Pooling Work in the Node Driver? <node-faq-connection-pool>`
in the FAQ.

Timeout Error
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sometimes when you send a request through the driver to the server, the request

> times out. When this happens, you might receive an error message

Reviewer: Suggestion: 
Put the blame on the network rather than leave the cause unspecified ("sometimes [it happens]").

E.g.
"When the network is not able to deliver a request from the driver to the server quickly enough, it can time out."

Reviewer: Question:
Did you get a chance to look at this comment?

similar to the following message:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   timed out while checking out a connection from connection pool: context canceled

If you receive this error, try the following methods to resolve the
issue.

Set connectTimeoutMS
--------------------

To prevent the driver from hanging during connection or to prevent the

> driver from spending too long trying to reach unreachable replica sets,

Reviewer: Issue:
I think "replica set node" or "node" is the appropriate term. The "replica set" is the term that describes the topology of multiple nodes.

Suggestion:

```suggestion
driver from spending too much time attempting to reach unreachable replica set nodes,
```

you can set the ``connectTimeoutMS`` option of your
:ref:`connection options <node-connection-options>`.
You should ensure the ``connectTimeoutMS`` setting is not lower than

> the longest network latency you have to a member of the set. If one of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the highest network latency you have to a member of the set. If one of the
```

secondary members is on the other side of the planet and has a latency of 10000

> milliseconds, setting the ``connectTimeoutMS`` to anything lower will
> prevent the driver from ever connecting to that member.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

Continue to use concrete numbers to make the comparison. Avoid future tense when possible.
 
```suggestion
milliseconds, setting the ``connectTimeoutMS`` to 9000 prevents
prevent the driver from connecting to that member.
```

client by specifying ``family: 4`` as an
`option to your MongoClient <{+api+}/interfaces/MongoClientOptions.html#family>`__.

.. code-block:: js

   const client = new MongoClient(uri, {
     family: 4,
   });

ECONNRESET Error
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the connection is reset when the driver calls ``client.connect()``, it
generates this error message:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   MongoServerSelectionError: connect ECONNRESET ::<IP address>:<port>

The following section describes a method that may help resolve the issue.

Increase the Number of File Descriptors
---------------------------------------

A file descriptor is a unique identifier associated with an open process. In most
operating systems, each open connection from the driver is associated with a
file descriptor. Operating systems typically have a limit on the number of file
descriptors used by a single process. An ``ECONNRESET`` error can occur
if the number of connections exceeds this limit.

Consider the following example that creates a client and attempts to connect to
a local deployment:

.. literalinclude:: /code-snippets/faq/econnresetWithClientConnect-example.js
  :language: javascript
  :linenos:

> This operation can create a maximum number of 5000 connections as indicated by

Reviewer: Issue: 
1) I think claiming that the "operation can create... connections" is incorrect. 

2) The example only really shows how to specify maxPoolSize on the connection URI. 

Suggestion:

1) I don't think `connect()` is responsible for creating 5000 connections. I think the `connect()` operation has been a no-op in the Node.js driver for a few years which is why our connection examples need to perform a command to determine whether the connection was successful. 

The driver manages the connection pool. The operation only shows how you specify the setting in the connection string. I would present a scenario without using the code example, and appropriately attribute connection creation to the driver.

2) I think the explanation included in this paragraph is important, but the code snippet does not match the intent of the description. I think either of the following might be better:
- Omitting it 
- Relocating it to after explaining maxPoolSize setting explanation, and using it just to show how to set it on the connection URI.

error message similar to one of the following messages:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   Command failed with error 18 (AuthenticationFailed): 'Authentication
   failed.' on server <hostname>:<port>.

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   connection() error occurred during connection handshake: auth error:
   sasl conversation error: unable to authenticate using mechanism
   "SCRAM-SHA-256": (AuthenticationFailed) Authentication failed.

The following sections describe actions you can take to potentially resolve the
issue.

.. _node-troubleshooting-connection-string-auth:

Check Your Connection String
----------------------------

An invalid connection string is the most common cause of authentication
issues when attempting to connect to MongoDB using ``SCRAM-SHA-256``.

.. tip::

   For more information about connection strings,
   see :ref:`Connection URI <node-connection-uri>` in the Connection Guide.

If your connection string contains a username and password, ensure that they
are in the correct format.

.. note::

   If the username or password includes any of the following characters, they

>    must be `percent encoded <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-2.1>`__:

Reviewer: Suggestion:

This seems like a distinct item to check rather than supplemental information that might go in an admonition. I think it would make sense to move the content outside of an admonition.

Author: I pulled it into the main text of the topic, because it feels like it fits strongly with verifying that the URI string is correct.

the same machine doesn't require any authorization to connect.

Error Sending Message
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When the driver fails to send a command after you make a request,
it may display the following error message:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   com.mongodb.MongoSocketWriteException: Exception sending message

The following sections describe actions you can take to potentially resolve the
issue.

Check User Permissions
----------------------

Verify that you've accessed the MongoDB deployment with the correct user. The driver
might generate an error message if you are using a user that does not have
permissions to send the message.

Also ensure that the user has the appropriate permissions for the message you
are sending. MongoDB uses Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) to control access
to a MongoDB system. For more information about how to configure RBAC in MongoDB,
see :manual:`Default MongoDB Port </core/authorization/>`.

Verify the User Is in the Authentication Database
-------------------------------------------------

Verify the user is in the correct authentication database. For more
information about the authentication database, see

> :ref:`Authentication Error <node-troubleshooting-connection-admin>`.

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think the content in this section is subsumed by the info in the prior header "Check User Permissions" and therefore should be omitted. If the reader checks for the user permissions, they must find the user first.

Check the Number of Connections
-------------------------------

If you need to create more open connections, increase ``maxPoolSize``. For more
information about checking the number of connections, see
:ref:`Error Sending Message <node-troubleshooting-connection-number-connections>`.

Timeout Error
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sometimes when you send a request through the driver to the server, the request
times out. When this happens, you might receive an error message
similar to the following message:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   timed out while checking out a connection from connection pool: context canceled

If you receive this error, try the following action to resolve the
issue.

Set connectTimeoutMS
--------------------

To prevent the driver from hanging during connection or to prevent the
driver from spending too much time attempting to reach unreachable replica set
nodes, you can set the ``connectTimeoutMS`` option of your
:ref:`connection options <node-connection-options>`.
You should ensure the ``connectTimeoutMS`` setting is not lower than
the highest network latency you have to a member of the set. If one of the

> secondary members is on the other side of the planet and has a latency of 10000

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think it's possible to leave out the potential cause for latency since that isn't important to the explanation but might be perceived that way. "If [both] X and Y, then..."

```suggestion
secondary members has a latency of 10000
```

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   MongoServerSelectionError: connect ECONNREFUSED <IPv6 address>:<port>

The following sections describe actions you can take to potentially resolve the
issue.

Ensure MongoDB and Your Client Use the Same Protocol
----------------------------------------------------

In Node.js v17 and later, the DNS resolver uses ``IPv6`` by default when both

> the client and host support both. If MongoDB uses one mode (such as IPv4) and your
> client uses a different mode (such as IPv6), this will result in the error message
> above.

Reviewer: Suggestion:
The [style guide advises against using parentheses](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/punctuation/#parentheses) other than for a select few reasons.

```suggestion
the client and host support both. For example, if MongoDB uses IPv4 and your client uses a different mode, such as IPv6, the driver returns the prior error message.
```

   see :ref:`Connection URI <node-connection-uri>` in the Connection Guide.

If your connection string contains a username and password, ensure that they
are in the correct format. If the username or password includes any of the
following characters, they must be
`percent encoded <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-2.1>`__:

.. code-block:: none

    : / ? # [ ] @

The following example shows how to percent encode "#MyP@assword?":

.. code-block:: javascript

    const password = '#MyP@assword?';
    const encodedPassword = encodeURIComponent(password);

>     console.log(encodedPassword);

Reviewer: Issue:
The indentation looks off by one space.

Suggestion:

Fix the indentation. Applies to all instances.

The example also seems more verbose than necessary.

```javascript
  const encodedPassword = encodeURIComponent('#MyP@assword?');
  // The value of encodedPassword is "%23MyP%40assword%3F"
```

If you want to keep the split between code and output, this could be the code:

```javascript
  console.log(encodeURIComponent('#MyP@assword?'));
```
